Hi will come back in this video we're looking at.
Create table you may be wondering when we've got this graphical interface why are we concerned about
creating tables using sequel.
And the answer is your programs are not really going to be running in your own computer most of the
time.
Normally you'll write a program and then you put it on a server on the internet.
If it's a web application or you'll distribute it and handed over to your users if it's a desktop application
and neither of those cases can you rely on your users to use the graphical interface to create your
data and your tables therefore your program must be able to create those tables and programmatically
.
That's why sequel provides these commands to be able to create tables and databases and things like
that let alone in this video how to create tables and in that we're also going to learn what Primary
Key No.
And a bunch of other things which are also very useful.
We've got here our three tables.
So what we can do to learn more about creating tables is right click one of the tables and click on
scripts and realize you can really see this very well.
But nevertheless you've got to create script there.
And that tells you some information about how you might go about creating a table that has the data
.
This table contains So as you can see it starts with create table then it has the schema dot the table
name.
And then it's got the columns that are in the table.
Let's start with something simpler.
So I can explain to you what how you construct these commands.
I'm going to select everything here and just remove it and I'm going to show you how you might go about
creating a simple table that only has an ID and identifier and a name as columns.
The first thing to do is to create a table that tells sequel that you want to create a table and not
something else like a database or a view.
We're going to look at those later on.
And then you can specify the schema.
But if you're using the default public schema this is optional so you don't have to say public don't
.
You can just see the database name if you prefer.
It's good practice to put the schema in there as well.
So I'm going to leave it in but you can omit it if you've only got that one and you're using the default
scheme and then you would use the table name.
I'm going to call it users.
The table name we've got already in there it's called customers.
So we're going to create one called users just for the sake of testing.
And then you open a bracket and the closing bracket and remember new lines and things like that and
sequel are not important.
So I'm just putting a new line in here for the sake of readability.
But you can put it all in one line if you prefer.
And then what I'm going to put in here is the name of the first column which in my case is going to
be ID for an identifier.
You can call it whatever you want.
Naturally then you specify the data type and for identify as a Jew usually integer unless you have a
lot of users.
In that case it can be beacon.
But for that you need to have a lot of users.
So normally you would use integer because that's just a bit more performing when you've got integer
.
Here we can specify whether the ID is going to be a primary key.
And we've talked about primary keys slightly before and but with a primary key is is just a unique row
unique value that is used to identify each row in the database.
So in this case if the ID is going to be unique for each user we may want to use the ID to identify
each user individually.
For example we could also use the name but some users may have the same name as others optionally instead
of ID we could choose something like username or email.
If all the users are going to have unique user names or emails Mike is going to choose IDB.
That's a very standard thing to do.
So then after the integer you type primary key and that tells sequel or post-grads rather that this
ID column is an integer and you want it to be a primary key primary keys are unique by default.
And that's going to be important later.
Then as I said earlier the second column that I wanted to create was a name.
This can be a username or a first name doesn't matter and the column name is going to be name and then
the data type is going to be character varying.
And then I'm going to type in the size of the end of the row with the data which will be 100 characters
long at maximum.
And finally I'm going to tell you that the name cannot be empty because we need a name after all creating
a user with only an ID doesn't tell us much about that user.
So the name cannot be empty it cannot be null.
So I type in not to know at the end.
So again what this does is it creates a table called users with two columns ID and name the ID and integer
.
The name is a Cannata varying of site 100.
And the name is not known.
And the ID is a primary key this is one way to do it.
But instead if we wanted instead of setting primary key here alongside the column we can also set it
at the end.
So I'm going to type in a coma and then I'm going to say as well as these two columns there.
I also want to add a constraint into this table and a constraint can be primary key or it can be not
null amongst a number of others.
So the way we would do that that we would add a primary key to the ID is by saying constraint and then
we give this constraint a name.
So this can be for example users ID peaky key for primary key it doesn't matter what you call it.
But as long as it's unique and then primary key id between brackets and now you're probably wondering
well why would you ever want to do that.
And you know what's the point and the point is that you can have multi-column primary keys which is
why you sometimes have to do it this way if you wanted both your ID and your name to be a primary key
and multi-column you would do this and we're not really going to get too much yet into what a multi-column
primary key is but just know that you can set the primary keys for multiple columns together and that
maybe it's not that useful but nevertheless it can be done.
And we're going to look into why you might want to do that later on AM and this is how you would do
that if you only have one primary key.
Then I would just recommend doing it the normal way which is setting the primary key up there.
And when we press play we get a syntax error because we have too many commas and then that works when
we delete the comma and we return successfully.
And now we can go and select start from public users.
And as you can see there's no data about we can't back now two columns which is great.
And now we are ready to learn about some of the mean more complex which is foreign keys.
So I'd say we've got our users there and then we wanted to have something like
videos that the user has uploaded.
I'm going to go with videos because it's an easy
concept what we would want to do is create another table for videos.
So let's start with that create table public top videos and then we specify the columns.
Each video is going to have an ID.
So you know how to do this.
And each of you is going to have a name and you also know how to do that.
Essentially just copying what we just did in the last table.
I would recommend once again pausing giving it a go just to make sure that it sticks
OK.
Once that's done remember the way to create the ID is to say ID and then interject which is a data type
and then primary key video name which is going to be a character varying.
I'm going to say of size 255 that's quite standard size and it's reasonably long and I'm going to say
it's not Noal because I don't want the name of the video to be empty.
And then what also has to come in here is which user uploaded this video or created this video.
So I'm going to put the user that created a video between these two columns so after the idea and before
the name.
And it doesn't really matter where and where you put it.
It's just slightly nicer when you retrieve the data to have that data ordered nicely.
And we're going to look at some data that is not ordered and actually later on.
So you know what's a user on this Friday.
And this is also going to be an integer because it is going to be referencing the users table and the
user id table.
So what this is saying now is we have an ID which is an integer and that's the primary key for the videos
table.
Then we've got a user ID which is an integer and then we've got a name for the video which is a character
varying of lines 255 that cannot be null.
The user ID right now is just a number.
So really here we could put anything we wanted him and pushcarts would accept it as long as it's a number
naturally which is not really what we want because we could put in there the idea of a user and then
that would make sense we could put in there the idea of the user who uploaded the video.
But as it stands we could put in there any other number we could put in the number of a user that doesn't
exist.
So if we want to allow postscripts sequel to tell us whether what we're doing is valid then we have
to give it a bit more information.
We have to tell it this user id column should be a valid column in the Users table.
And the way we do that is we just say reference's public dot users.
And what that says is make sure that this user ID is a valid column in public dock users and by default
the column that it checks is the primary key of the users table.
So whether it is doing is saying make sure they use an ID is a valid column is a valid role in the users
user's ID call them.
So let's do that as press play.
And that works.
So now we've got our video stable and our user stable.
So what to do in the next video is we're going to be enjoying some data and then we're going to be verifying
that all of this works.
So without further ado now see in the next video